README.md, before:

Econsensus
==========

Econsensus is an open source web application tool for consensus decision-making within one or more organizations, 
used and written by [Aptivate](http://aptivate.org).

Please read the [documentation](http://old.aptivate.org/econsensus) and feel free to join the 
[discussion](https://groups.google.com/forum/?fromgroups#!forum/econsensusdiscuss).

If you'd like to contribute to this project, please read the rest of this section, otherwise 
if you just want to install and try it out, skip to the next section.

If you'd like to contribute to this project, first of all welcome! Secondly, please follow the workflow below:
- fork the repository on github into your own github account
- follow the instructions below to install a development instance, but instead of cloning from the aptivate repository, clone from the 'develop' branch of your forked repository - always work on the develop branch because 
that's more up-to-date than master.
- now create a branch of your local develop branch as follows:
 
    $ git branch my_branch

- and check it out:

    $ git checkout my_branch
    
- please run the tests as you develop, and certainly before submitting your changes to us:

    $ cd django/econsensus
    
    $ rm local_settings.py
    
    $ ln -s local_settings.py.dev_fasttests local_settings.py
    
    $ ./manage.py test publicweb
    
- once you're done committing and all the tests are passing, push your branch to your account on github:

    $ git push origin my_branch
    
- find your branch my_branch on your github account and use the github button to submit a pull request to the aptivate 
develop branch
- we'll get notified of your pull request and will be in touch asap

Thank you for your interest!

Install an instance
===================

This is based on using Ubuntu >= 10.04, but should also work on Debian Squeeze.

First install the requirements:

    $ sudo apt-get install git-core python-virtualenv python-pip sqlite3 \
          python-dev libxml2-dev libyaml-dev mysql-server mysql-client \
          libmysqlclient-dev build-essential libxslt1-dev mercurial

TODO: instructions for installing elasticsearch and its requirements

Then check out the code:

    $ # for the latest stable code:
    $ git clone https://github.com/aptivate/econsensus.git
    $ # for contributors, get the develop branch from your forked repository:
    $ git clone https://github.com/my_user_account/econsensus.git -b develop

Then you should be able to do:

    $ cd econsensus
    $ deploy/bootstrap.py
    $ deploy/tasks.py deploy:dev

This will create the virtualenv and install the python packages required, then 
create the database with an initial admin user for use of the django admin screens 
and a few other details (see https://github.com/aptivate/dye/blob/master/README.md for 
more details). You should now be able to run the development server:

    $ cd django/econsensus/
    $ ./manage.py runserver
    
Use the instance
================

You should now be able to access the django admin screens at:

    http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin/

using the admin user with username and password 'admin'. This password can be changed 
via the django admin screens (see User table).

You should also be able to access the application screens at:

    http://127.0.0.1:8000/
    
which will show you the login screen, or allow you to "Sign up as a new member". 

We suggest you begin by creating some users and organizations for your new econsensus instance.
Start by signing up a new member by following the link on the login screen, log in and 
then create a new organization for that new member. Once you've done this, your new member can 
add other members to their organization because a creator of a new organization is automatically 
an admin level user of that organization. You can also repeat
these steps to sign up more members and create organizations for them, or you can also create new 
organizations as an existing logged-in user. 

Important note on email notifications
-------------------------------------
Please note that the processes described above involve email interaction. An econsensus instance installed as above is not set up to send out 
actual emails, but will instead write emails out as text files into the directory specified by the 
EMAIL_FILE_PATH setting in local_settings.py. This email behaviour is controlled by the EMAIL_BACKEND 
setting also in local_settings.py.

Commit message:

Added instructions to README for configuring search

README.md, after:

Econsensus
==========

Econsensus is an open source web application tool for consensus decision-making within one or more organizations, 
used and written by [Aptivate](http://aptivate.org).

Please read the [documentation](http://old.aptivate.org/econsensus) and feel free to join the 
[discussion](https://groups.google.com/forum/?fromgroups#!forum/econsensusdiscuss).

If you'd like to contribute to this project, please read the rest of this section, otherwise 
if you just want to install and try it out, skip to the next section.

If you'd like to contribute to this project, first of all welcome! Secondly, please follow the workflow below:
- fork the repository on github into your own github account
- follow the instructions below to install a development instance, but instead of cloning from the aptivate repository, clone from the 'develop' branch of your forked repository - always work on the develop branch because 
that's more up-to-date than master.
- now create a branch of your local develop branch as follows:
 
    $ git branch my_branch

- and check it out:

    $ git checkout my_branch
    
- please run the tests as you develop, and certainly before submitting your changes to us:

    $ cd django/econsensus
    
    $ rm local_settings.py
    
    $ ln -s local_settings.py.dev_fasttests local_settings.py
    
    $ ./manage.py test publicweb
    
- once you're done committing and all the tests are passing, push your branch to your account on github:

    $ git push origin my_branch
    
- find your branch my_branch on your github account and use the github button to submit a pull request to the aptivate 
develop branch
- we'll get notified of your pull request and will be in touch asap

Thank you for your interest!

Install an instance
===================

This is based on using Ubuntu >= 10.04, but should also work on Debian Squeeze.

First install the requirements:

    $ sudo apt-get install git-core python-virtualenv python-pip sqlite3 \
          python-dev libxml2-dev libyaml-dev mysql-server mysql-client \
          libmysqlclient-dev build-essential libxslt1-dev mercurial

Then check out the code:

    $ # for the latest stable code:
    $ git clone https://github.com/aptivate/econsensus.git
    $ # for contributors, get the develop branch from your forked repository:
    $ git clone https://github.com/my_user_account/econsensus.git -b develop

Then you should be able to do:

    $ cd econsensus
    $ deploy/bootstrap.py
    $ deploy/tasks.py deploy:dev

This will create the virtualenv and install the python packages required, then 
create the database with an initial admin user for use of the django admin screens 
and a few other details (see https://github.com/aptivate/dye/blob/master/README.md for 
more details). You should now be able to run the development server:

    $ cd django/econsensus/
    $ ./manage.py runserver
    
Use the instance
================

You should now be able to access the django admin screens at:

    http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin/

using the admin user with username and password 'admin'. This password can be changed 
via the django admin screens (see User table).

You should also be able to access the application screens at:

    http://127.0.0.1:8000/
    
which will show you the login screen, or allow you to "Sign up as a new member". 

We suggest you begin by creating some users and organizations for your new econsensus instance.
Start by signing up a new member by following the link on the login screen, log in and 
then create a new organization for that new member. Once you've done this, your new member can 
add other members to their organization because a creator of a new organization is automatically 
an admin level user of that organization. You can also repeat
these steps to sign up more members and create organizations for them, or you can also create new 
organizations as an existing logged-in user. 

Important note on email notifications
-------------------------------------
Please note that the processes described above involve email interaction. An econsensus instance installed as above is not set up to send out 
actual emails, but will instead write emails out as text files into the directory specified by the 
EMAIL_FILE_PATH setting in local_settings.py. This email behaviour is controlled by the EMAIL_BACKEND 
setting also in local_settings.py.

Enabling search
---------------

If you wish to search within econsensus, you will also need to install
Elasticsearch. This can be downloaded from http://www.elasticsearch.org/.

Elastisticsearch requires Java be install, e.g.:

    $ sudo apt-get install openjdk-6-jre-headless

Econsensus also needs to be configured to use Elasticsearch, which can be done by adding the following
to local_settings.py:

    HAYSTACK_CONNECTIONS = {
        'default': {
             'ENGINE': 'haystack.backends.elasticsearch_backend.ElasticsearchSearchEngine',
             'URL': 'http://127.0.0.1:9200/',
             'INDEX_NAME': 'haystack',
        },
    }

If you configure search when your Econsensus installation already has content, then you will need to get
this content into the search index by running:

    ./manage.py update_index
